``sock`` - Tunneled TCP/UDP Sockets
===================================

A channel of ``"type":"sock"`` is a request to create a minimal tunneled
TCP or UDP socket, carrying arbitrary binary data. It may be reliable
for TCP, or unreliable to carry UDP. It is designed to mirror the
popular socket interfaces for the most common usage patterns, but not as
an exhaustive or complete replacement.

The open packet must contain a ``"sock":value`` where the value is one
of ``connect``, ``bind``, or ``accept``, and usually has a
``"src":{"ip":"1.2.3.4","port":5678}`` and/or ``dst`` specified. An open
may also contain the initial binary ``BODY`` payload to deliver if
successful.

``connect``
-----------

Request to create a new socket to the given ``dst``. Any non-error
packet response indicates the connection was opened. It may have an
optional ``"src":{...}`` indicating the known original source ip/port
when proxying/tunneling.

``bind``
--------

Request for the recipient to create a listening socket and bind to it.
If the ``src`` is included, only the ``port`` should be specified in it
(and defaults to ``0`` if not) to indicate that the recipient chooses
any open port to listen on. The response must include a ``dst`` that
specifies the current ``ip`` and ``port`` bound to this channel that the
recipient may use/distribute. The recipient should do whatever is
necessary to ensure they are public usable addresses.

For an unreliable bind, sending and receiving UDP messages happens on
the same channel using a ``src`` and ``dst`` address. The sender
specifies a ``dst`` to originate a new UDP message from the port, and
receives incoming messages with a ``src`` indiciating where they came
from.

For a reliable bind, incoming connections will individually open new
``accept`` channels from the recipient for each one.

``accept``
----------

When the recipient has an active reliable ``bind``, any new incoming
connection will generate an accept channel and must have the ``dst`` of
the originating bind along with the ``src`` address information.

An accept can also be generated for when a binding is created
independently, if a hashname is listening on a TCP or UDP port on behalf
of another without using a ``bind`` channel. The semantics of ``dst``
and ``src`` are the same, and the accept channel may be reliable or
unreliable.
