Chunking
========

Sending sequential packet byte arrays over streaming transports (such as
TCP/TLS) requires additional framing to indicate the size of each one.
Framing is also necessary to break packets into smaller pieces for low
MTU transports (such as Bluetooth LE and 802.15.4 based ) and to signal
flow control (Serial).

LOB chunking is a minimalist byte-encoding technique describing how to
break any packet into multiple sequential chunks and re-assemble them
into packets with minimum overhead. There is no CRC or other consistency
checks as it is only designed to carry encrypted packets with their own
internal validation and be implemented as a library utility for many
transports with differing needs.

Format
------

A packet is broken into fragments of size 1 to 255 bytes each, and each
fragment is prefixed with a single byte representing its length,
together this is called a ``chunk``. The sequence of one or more chunks
is terminated with a zero-length terminator chunk, a single null byte.

Sequential chunks received that have any size should be appended to a
buffer until the zero terminator chunk, at which point the buffer should
be checked for a valid packet or discarded. Any lone zero chunks with no
buffer should just be ignored.

Chunk size of 5:

::

    packet = [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9]; // 10 byte packet
    chunk1 = [4,0,1,2,3]; // 4-byte fragments
    chunk2 = [4,4,5,6,7];
    chunk3 = [2,8,9];
    chunk4 = [0]; // terminator

When using chunks for fixed frame sizes the terminator should be
included in the last frame if there's space, so the last frame for the
example would be ``[2,8,9,0]``.

Acks
----

At any point a zero-length chunk may be sent in response to a full
incoming chunk and used by a transport for sending acknowedgement or
keepalive signals. Some transports may require this to manage flow
control, buffer sizes, and detect timeouts faster.

This ack mechanism should not be used to try and create a reliable
transport at this level, packets are expected to be safe to send
unreliably and will internally be retransmitted when necessary.

Transport Notes
---------------

-  TCP / TLS - default chunk size of 256, ensure a chunk or ack is
   written in response to processing one or more incoming chunks to help
   the sender detect timeouts faster
-  BLE - default chunk size of 20 to fit into a BLE data frame, no acks
   necessary
-  802.15.4 based transports - default chunk size of 120 bytes, no acks
   necessary (use 802.15.4 framing acks)
-  Serial - use the hardware serial buffer size (64 bytes for many
   arduino devices) as the chunk size, and require writing an ack for
   every chunk read for flow control to not overflow the hardware buffer

Implementations
---------------

-  `js <https://github.com/telehash/lob-enc/blob/master/index.js#L101>`__
-  `c <https://github.com/telehash/telehash-c/blob/master/src/lib/chunks.h>`__

