Handshake - Mutual Exchange Creation
====================================

A handshake is one or more encrypted `messages <messages.md.rst>`__ sent
between two endpoints in order to validate their identity and establish
a mutual session to use for `channels <channels.md.rst>`__. At a minimum
at least one handshake message must be both sent and received in order
for the session to be created, with both endpoints verifying that it is
always the most current one.

Applications may send or expect more than one handshake message for
additional authentication and authorization requirements beyond the
basic endpoint key exchange. New handshakes are also triggered
automatically for existing sessions as needed by the transport(s) in use
to verify that the network paths are still valid and/or maintain any NAT
mappings.

The resulting size of encrypted handshake packets vary by which `Cipher
Sets <cs/>`__ are used combined with the type of inner packet, typically
it ranges from ~70 to ~1100 bytes.

Resend/Timeout
--------------

After a new handshake is generated and delivered it should be resent
verbatim at 1 second, 3 seconds, 8 seconds, and again at 20 seconds
unless there is a valid handshake response. After 30 seconds with no
response the exchange should be timed out, considered invalid and all
related state removed.

At any point the transport being used to deliver packets may generate a
keepalive handshake request which will start this process.

Message Types
-------------

Any decrypted handshake message is identified with a ``"type":"..."``
string value, that if not included in the header must be defaulted to
the type of ``"key"``. Only one unique type may exist concurrently (same
``at`` value) with any handshake process.

"key" (default)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The message must attach the `binary packet encoding <cs/#packet>`__ of
the sender's keys as the BODY, it contains the intermediates of all
supported ciphersets and the binary public key bytes so that the
sender's hashname can be validated and a handshake can be generated in
response.

Example:

.. code:: json

    {
      "type":"key",
      "at":123456789
    }
    BODY:
      {
        "3a": "eg3fxjnjkz763cjfnhyabeftyf75m2s4gll3gvmuacegax5h6nia",
        "1a": "ckczcg2fq5hhaksfqgnm44xzheku6t7c4zksbd3dr4wffdvvem6q"
      }
      BODY: [2a's public key binary bytes]

"jwt"
~~~~~

The message is a `JSON Web Token <../guides/jose.md.rst#jwt>`__ encoded
packet.

"uri"
~~~~~

A `URI <../uri.md.rst>`__ was used to generate this handshake and it is
included as the ``"uri":"..."`` value.

"tx"
~~~~

A `bitcoin transaction <../guides/bitcoin.md.rst>`__ is attached as the
``BODY`` to validate this handshake.

Sequencing with ``at``
----------------------

All decrypted handshake messages must contain an ``"at":123456`` with a
64 bit positive unsigned integer value to determine the newest generated
handshake from either endpoint. There is no requirement for the ``at``
value to be the current time, in sync, or accurate, only that it
increases on all subsequent handshakes in the future from the last
highest known value.

Multiple messages as part of one handshake must all have the same ``at``
value and different types, only one message per type with the highest
``at`` is used.

The ``at`` value determines if an incoming handshake is the most current
and if the recipient needs to respond. The last bit in the ``at`` must
always match the `order <order.md.rst>`__ value of the sender, if they
are ``ODD`` it must be a 1 (and 0 if they are ``EVEN``) to guarantee
that no two endpoints can choose the same ``at`` independently.

When an ``at`` is received that is higher than one sent, new handshake
message (or messages) must be returned with that matching highest ``at``
value in order to inform the sender that their handshake is confirmed.
Upon receiving and confirming a new ``at``, any pending channel packets
that may have been waiting to send may be flushed/delivered.

When first creating a handshake, the sender should make every effort to
always choose a higher ``at`` than any they may have sent in the past.
Most can just use local `32-bit
epoch <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time>`__ as this value, but
when not available (embedded systems) they should locally store the last
sent ``at`` and always increase it.

If the maximum ``at`` value is ever reached/used the two hashnames
cannot send any more subsequent handshakes and will no longer be able to
communicate, either side must generate a new hashname to start over.

Routing Token
-------------

The handshake determines the exchange's ``ROUTING TOKEN`` value, which
must always be the first 16 bytes of the encrypted outer message
``BODY``. The ``ROUTING TOKEN`` is not used cryptographically and is
only a unique value to assist the two endpoints and any routing parties
on mapping to a known exchange session.

Each `Cipher Set <cs/>`__ must structure their messages such that the
first 16 bytes of the ``BODY`` are unique and remain stable for the
lifetime of the exchange, typically being the exchange's public key
bytes.

Any handshake with a different ``ROUTING TOKEN`` and a higher ``at`` of
an existing exchange for the same endpoint must clear any cached
handshake messages or state stored for that exchange.

Handling Multiple Messages
--------------------------

Immediately upon receiving a valid higher or equal ``at`` for any
handshake message type, that message should be cached and replace any
previous matching type with a *lower* ``at`` only (messages with
matching ``at`` and ``type`` values must be discarded). The message
should also then be grouped with any other received messages with the
same ``at`` and delivered to the application to process and validate.

If an application requires multiple message types it simply waits until
the sufficient types arrive and process/validate them.
Application-invalidated handshakes must never be responded to so that
the endpoint does not advertise its existence except to explicitly
trusted/validated endpoints.

At any point the application may provide updated handshake message types
to be sent in a new handshake process. When the transport requests an
updated handshake, the last known/provided message types are updated
with a new ``at`` and re-sent.
