Messages - Asynchronous / Offline Content Transport with Forward Secrecy
========================================================================

Message packets are for encrypting small amounts of content to other
entities without requiring a synchronous exchange, such that the
recipient can process them at any point in the future. They are used
primarily for creating handshakes to establish synchronous
`channel <channels.md.rst>`__ encryption that has forward secrecy
guarantees, as messages alone provide a lower level of privacy and
should only be used for temporary or non-secret data and never stored at
rest.

Messages define how to encrypt the packets but have no required internal
structure (unlike channels). There is a larger overhead for encrypted
message packets as they must always include the ephemeral public key
information used and often require additional computation as well.

An exchange may be created on demand just to generate/process one or
more messages and not used for channels, but since messages are
asynchronous they do not require the exchanges to be in sync to operate.

All `handshakes <handshake.md.rst>`__ are message packets.

The size of an encrypted message is determined by the application and
context in which it is used, handshakes are usually small (<1400 bytes
to maximize transport compatibility) and any messages intended to be
sent over a transport with a low MTU may need to use `chunked
encoding <../lob/chunking.md.rst>`__ as the BODY of multiple messages.

Packet Encryption
-----------------

All message packets are encrypted using a cipher as determined by the
`Cipher Set <cs/>`__ in use for the exchange. The encrypted (OUTER)
packets must have a ``HEAD`` of length 1 to identify the CSID and the
encrypted contents as the binary ``BODY``.

Once decrypted they result in an INNER packet with a structure that is
determined entirely by the application. It is common practice for
applications to use a ``"type":"value"`` on the INNER JSON similarly to
channel packets, but not required. All INNER packets should contain a
mechanism for the recipient to determine recency to ensure that the
ephemeral keys already used can be invalidated and not-reused if
required for forward secrecy.

The `handshakes <handshake.md.rst>`__ messages have an INNER that
contains the sending endpoint's public key for the CSID used so that the
sender identity can be immediately validated.

Tokens
------

All message packets generated from one exchange will have at least the
first 16 bytes remain fixed for the lifetime of that exchange to be used
for network routing and validation caching. These 16 bytes are SHA-256
hashed into a 32 byte digest in order to remove any CSID uniqueness, and
then the first 16 bytes of the digest are used as the official ``TOKEN``
value to match future message or channel packets from that exchange.
